feat: v1.1.0 FWSS upgrade scripts and documentation (#384)
FilOzone/filecoin-services: service_contracts/tools/UPGRADE-PROCESS.md

# FWSS Contract Upgrade Process

This document describes the upgrade process for FilecoinWarmStorageService (FWSS) and related contracts, organized as a phase-based runbook.

## Contract Upgradeability Overview

| Contract | Proxy Pattern | Upgrade Method |
|----------|---------------|----------------|

> | FilecoinWarmStorageService | UUPS Proxy (two-step) | `announce-planned-upgrade.sh` + `upgrade.sh` |

Reviewer: Can we define somewhere what is meant by UUPS proxy.  (I don't know much here.). I assume this is ERC-1822 (per https://rareskills.io/post/uups-proxy ), but then we have implemented our own upgrade scheme.

1. **Announce** - Call `announcePlannedUpgrade()` with the new implementation address and `AFTER_EPOCH`
2. **Execute** - After `AFTER_EPOCH` has passed, call `upgradeToAndCall()` to complete the upgrade

## Choosing AFTER_EPOCH

When announcing an upgrade, choose `AFTER_EPOCH` to give stakeholders adequate notice:

| Upgrade Type | Minimum Notice | Recommended |
|--------------|----------------|-------------|
| Routine (bug fixes, minor features) | ~24 hours (~5760 epochs) | 1-2 days |
| Breaking changes | ~1 week (~20160 epochs) | 1-2 weeks |
| Immutable dependency changes | ~2 weeks (~40320 epochs) | 2-4 weeks |

```bash
CURRENT_EPOCH=$(cast block-number --rpc-url "$ETH_RPC_URL"); AFTER_EPOCH=$((CURRENT_EPOCH + 5760)); echo "Current: $CURRENT_EPOCH, Upgrade after: $AFTER_EPOCH"
```

Considerations:
- Allow time for stakeholder review
- Avoid weekends/holidays for mainnet upgrades
- Calibnet can use shorter notice periods for testing

## Phase 0: Decide Scope

1. Identify which contracts are changing:
   - FWSS implementation
   - ServiceProviderRegistry implementation
   - StateView contract (typically for breaking changes in the view)

> 2. If the change is breaking or touches immutable dependencies, plan for longer notice and a migration guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the change is breaking (including breaking changes to dependencies) , plan for longer notice and a migration guide.
```

Is that more clear?

## Phase 1: Prepare

> 1. **Prepare changelog entry** in `CHANGELOG.md`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Prepare changelog entry** in [`CHANGELOG.md`](../../CHANGELOG.md):
```

   - Document all changes since last release (https://github.com/FilOzone/filecoin-services/releases)
   - Mark breaking changes clearly
   - Include migration notes if needed
2. **Create PR** with changelog updates
3. **Update the version** string in the contracts if applicable.
4. **Create tracking issue** using the [Create Upgrade Announcement](https://github.com/FilOzone/filecoin-services/actions/workflows/upgrade-announcement.yml) GitHub Action

## Phase 2: Calibnet Rehearsal

Always test the upgrade on Calibnet before mainnet.

### Deploy Implementations (Calibnet)

FWSS implementation:
```bash
./deploy-warm-storage-implementation-only.sh
```

Other contracts you might deploy during a upgrade can be:

ServiceProviderRegistry implementation (if needed):
```bash
./deploy-registry-calibnet.sh
```

FilecoinWarmStorageStateView update (if needed):
```bash
./deploy-warm-storage-view.sh
```

`deployments.json` is updated automatically by the scripts. Commit the updated file in the upgrade PR and document the new addresses in PR comments for traceability.

> ### Announce and Execute (Calibnet)

Reviewer: This process needs to potentially get followed for ServiceProviderRegistry as well right?

   ```
3. Deploy StateView (if needed):
   ```bash
   ./deploy-warm-storage-view.sh
   ```

`deployments.json` is updated automatically by the scripts. Commit the updated file in the upgrade PR and document the new addresses in PR comments for traceability.

## Phase 4: Announce the Mainnet Upgrade

1. Choose `AFTER_EPOCH` based on the upgrade type.
2. Announce on-chain:
   ```bash
   export ETH_RPC_URL="https://api.node.glif.io/rpc/v1"
   export WARM_STORAGE_PROXY_ADDRESS="0x..."
   export NEW_WARM_STORAGE_IMPLEMENTATION_ADDRESS="0x..."
   export AFTER_EPOCH="123456"

   ./announce-planned-upgrade.s
   ```
4. Notify stakeholders (see template below). Use the GitHub Action to create the announcement issue.

## Phase 5: Execute the Mainnet Upgrade

After `AFTER_EPOCH`, execute:

```bash
export ETH_RPC_URL="https://api.node.glif.io/rpc/v1"
export WARM_STORAGE_PROXY_ADDRESS="0x..."
export NEW_WARM_STORAGE_IMPLEMENTATION_ADDRESS="0x..."
export NEW_WARM_STORAGE_VIEW_ADDRESS="0x..."  # Optional

./upgrade.sh
```

## Phase 6: Verify and Release

1. **Verify** upgrades on Blockscout.
2. **Confirm** `deployments.json` was updated (automatic via script).
3. **Merge** the changelog PR.

> 4. **Tag release** in GitHub (post-upgrade):

Reviewer: Why do you tag after the upgrade?

Author: I´m open for other sequences here as well, but to me it seems more natural to tag the release in GH, after for example this PR has been merge, rather than before.

   ```bash
   git tag v1.X.0
   git push origin v1.X.0
   ```

> 5. **Create GitHub Release** with the changelog, ensure to point to the `deployments.json` for current addresses.

Reviewer: Ideally the changelog itself should point to the tagged version.

6. **Notify stakeholders** that the upgrade is complete.

## Stakeholder Communication

> > **Tip**: Use the [Create Upgrade Announcement](../../.github/workflows/upgrade-announcement.yml) GitHub Action to automatically generate an announcement issue. Go to **Actions → Create Upgrade Announcement → Run workflow**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Tip**: Use the [Create Upgrade Announcement](../../.github/workflows/upgrade-announcement.yml) GitHub Action to automatically generate an announcement issue. Go to [**Actions → Create Upgrade Announcement → Run workflow**.](https://github.com/FilOzone/filecoin-services/actions/workflows/upgrade-announcement/upgrade-announcement)
```

(or whatever is the right URL)

Feel free to ignore though

### Upgrade Announcement Template

> **Automated**: The GitHub Action generates this template as an issue automatically.

When communicating an upgrade, include:

```
## FWSS Contract Upgrade Announcement

**Network**: [Mainnet/Calibnet]
**Upgrade Type**: [Routine/Breaking Change]
**Scheduled Execution**: After epoch [AFTER_EPOCH] (~[estimated date/time])

### Changes
- [Summary of changes]
- [Link to PR/release notes]

### Contracts Planned Upgraded
- FilecoinWarmStorageService
- ServiceProviderRegistry (if applicable)
- FilecoinWarmStorageServiceStateView (if applicable)

### Action Required
[None / Describe any required actions for integrators]

### Resources
- Release: [link] (if applicable)
- Changelog: [link]
- Upgrade Process: [link to this document]
```

### Breaking Changes Communication

For upgrades involving immutable dependency changes or breaking API changes:
- Provide extended notice period
- Create a migration guide for affected integrators
- Offer a support channel for questions during migration
- Consider phased rollout: Calibnet first, then Mainnet after validation

> ## Environment Variables Reference

Reviewer: I generally would want to see these closer to where their related scripts are discussed or at least the scripts should point here if this is the canonical place.
